Round One of the 2010 European Championships took place this weekend in Giovani a small ski resort in Northern Italy.

Arriving on Thursday to clear Blue skies  the ACE GG riders were looking forward to representing the team,  its sponsors and their families in Saturday?s first  Ladies and Youth European rounds of 2010.

European Round sections are widely known to be harder than World Round sections and the entry is always  higher making  positions harder to gain and meaning that every point matters. ACE Team Manager Mark Kilhams insists that Ace riders compete in the UEM as they are the perfect foundation for world events

With 2 laps of 12 very challenging sections of rocky outcrops set on a step hillside at high altitude, it was obvious that this event was not going to be easy. With rain forecast for late afternoon Saturday the ACE riders knew they had to keep on the pace as the wet weather would drag the clay mud onto the rocks and make the sections much more tricky.

First ACE GG rider away and also  first rider of the day  away  Saturday was ACE GG European International class contender  12 year old  Nikita Smith.  Having just qualified in age to compete in Europeans it was a very nervous Nikita who rode onto the podium to collect her first ever European championship punch card and bib number 101 and  await instructions to start.  Although many thought the sections to be too hard for the class Nikita stated that she felt they were all ?doable? and was happy with their severity. Throughout the day Nikita?s position constantly changed on the score board in the International Class but remained throughout within the top four places. Recording a fantastic final score of 58, only nine marks of podium Nikita secured an incredible fourth place on the day in her first UEM Championship, leaving the podium places to the much older contenders in her class. At the end of the trial Nikita said to team Manager Mark Kilhams ?

Second ACE GG rider away was 17 year old Joanne Coles . Working closely with her minder/father Paul Coles the pair were focused from the moment they collected their punch card from the start and Joanne passed her father his minders bib number 125.  With a higher than usual first lap score Joanne pushed out all the stops on her second lap giving the Italian spectators a truly breathtaking demonstration on how this talented teenager can ride a section and why she  is called ?The Ace up Britain?s Sleeve? and truly belongs on the worlds podiums. Recording a final score on the day of 36 marks lost Joanne secured third place for her country, her family and everyone associated to the team. At the end of the trial Joanne said to her Manager  ?

This first round of the UEM Youth Championships class saw ACE GG Youth A  rider Tom Dexter and Ace Youth B Rider Brad Cox both riding in the same class and  on the same course in their first ever European Youth Championship. A nervous  Tom, riding on bib no 183 ?flittered? from second to four place on the score board for most of the first lap. With a new found confidence for the ?big Stuff? Tom made many of the sections on the second lap look  easy as he rode them effortlessly under the guidance of his minder Chris Kilhams.  With two consistent lap scores of  34 Tom put in a fantastic performance for his country, his family and the team and sponsors he finished the day in a fantastic 8th place, just 6 marks of podium and 8 marks behind fellow GG  rider and good friend Chris Short .  At the end of the trial Tom said ? I didn?t realise just how close the scores would be in the top 10 positions. 

Riding on the same course as team mate Tom was 15 year old  Bradley Cox. Brad, who has only been riding trials for two and a half years was working with world class, new ACE team minder Marcus Shirley for this event.  Arriving smiling, calm and collected at the start  Brad was looking forward to the days riding supported by Marcus. Brad remained within the top 10  places on the scoreboard for most of the trial putting in some magnificent rides in his first ever European Event with a first lap score of 50 followed by 37 on lap two Brad finished the day on a total score of  87   securing a brilliant  16th on the day, beating his main rival in the British Championship Youth B class who was also competing. At the end of the trial Brad said ? As we were driving here I kept thinking ..this is too far to come to a trial. But once we got here and I saw the sections and did two days practicing with my team mates I completely understood why we did it.

ACE TRIALS TEAM would like to thank all their sponsors listed below for making these results possible by supporting the teams BRITISH up and coming  trials riders at home and abroad.  Through  your sponsorship it has  been possible for ACE to help  Nikita, Brad and Tom  compete in their first ever European Championship and for Joanne to secure podium for her Country.

Mark, Andrew, Jake Eley of RENAULT Truck and Trailer Care ? NEWARK
James Smith ? ICE VALLEY WATER
DUNLOP
JST
PUTOLINE
DANGER uk
FERIDAX off road
AIROH Helmets
SIDI boots
EXID Clothing
Tim and Sue Reynolds -  TRC
HOPE Shit Shifter
AQUWASH
Bob Adams ? ISO 9001
Alan Ketley
Dave and Val Leggett

If you would like to add your name to the teams sponsors and become part of the only British Satalite team please contact us on the website at the top of this report.

Words Sophie Kilhams






