

Sunday 18th April saw the British ladies travelling to Lincoln to Manton Quarry to compete in the TR Enterprises Ladies Trial aka  Round 3 of the British Ladies 2010 Championships hosted by Lincoln Motor Cycle and Car Club.

With 35 entrants in total across all classes and  bright clear skies it was obvious it was going to be a good day. Lincoln had laid out a course of  well thought out and varied quarry sections that were  long, twisty and tight, over  rocks, climbs and  tree roots which  meant marks were going to be taken every lap across the classes throughout the three large laps of 12 sections.

The two young lady riders everyone was talking about all day were the ACE duo of Championship contender Joanne Coles on her ACE Ice Valley Gas Gas and Youth B contender Nikita Smith on her  new ACE Gas Gas.  

Why?   Because these two ACE Gas Gas  ladies are by far the youngest in their respective classes, having just moved  up this year. Joanne at 17 years old and Nikita is 12 years old .  

These two talented ACE TRIALS TEAM riders are giving their rivals, who have been in their classes for years and are years older - a real run for their money now. 

 Joanne Coles working quietly and expertly, as ever, with her father/minder Paul set the pace from section one lap one supported as ever by her  granddad Clifford! (Clive). 

The only Championship rider to complete her first lap in single figures,  Joanne then went on to secure another low lap score of just 4  marks lost on lap two. This was  followed by a loss of  just 3 on her final lap showing why she has become known as The ACE Up Britain?s Sleeve and the lady everyone, including the lads, is closely watching.  

Making the most of the 5 hour time limit Joanne finished the day with no time penalty points and  on a total loss of 16. 

Last year Joanne regularly secured the lowest score on the Championship route but because she was in the Youth A Class  riding the Championship route she could not officially  collect  and be honoured as the  rightful reciprocate of the best performance and score of the trial . This year with her moving up Joanne can collect the ultimate trophy/award, and she has done every round since moving into the Championship class this year!! 

Joanne said to her  delighted  Team Manager Mark Kilhams  at the end of the trial  ? Well done to Lincoln MCC for a brill trial at Manton Quarry.  Although testing sections they suited all classes and there was nothing dangerous. I was disappointed with my 3 on section 6 on my second lap and also my  2  and ?dab? on my last lap as I think there should have been a clean lap there.  However, 3 wins in 3 rounds I could not have asked for a better start in my first year on the Championship route. Thanks to my minder dad, my family and to the team and team sponsors for their huge interest and support to Nikita and myself today. I am really looking forward to competing in and representing ACE and Gas Gas in my first SSDT in a fortnight?. 

Nikita  also set the pace in the Youth Bs and started how she meant to continue by showing her  main rival in the Youth B class that although she is new to the class  she means business. 

Working with her father/minder Andy,  Nikita completed lap one for a fantastic loss of just 2 marks lost,  the same score as her main rival. This two Ladies in the Youth B class are probably the closest contested  in a class in the British ladies Championships as they are very evenly matched in talent and ability if not age. Nikita followed her first lap score of 2 with a second lap score that was higher than expected due to Nikita riding section eleven immediately after a long piece of wire, that ran across the main line of the section at the foot of the final main obstacle had been removed for safety.  This removal was necessary and done by the section observer during a gap in riders but dislodged a large lump of mud leaving a big hole in front of the main large boulder final obstacle. This hole caused Nikita as the first rider through 10 minutes later,  problems resulting in her securing a three dab ?three? on this section  which probably lost her the trial. 

Never one to give up Nikita forgot the problem in the previous section and rode the final section of  lap two which was a typical Scottish style bumpy moving boulder straight flat line long section for a  clean. 

Completing Lap three for a fantastic 3 marks lost, a lower lap score than her main rival Nikita had to concede that the winners cup for today?s Youth B class  was 2 marks away from her  fantastic 12 marks lost on the day. 

At the end of the trial Nikita said to her Team Manager Mark ?It was a mint trial and the terrain was excellent. My first lap  was good but on my second lap I got a disappointing three . My third lap was good too  but it was one of those trials  that if you got a five or a three you had it. I would like to thank the team sponsors and my family for supporting  me to do my best and my dad for minding.? 

Joanne and Nikita would like the thank the team sponsors listed below for their genuine support.

Mark Eley ? RENAULT Truck and Trailer Care ? Newark
James Smith ICE VALLEY WATER
Shirty ? JST Gas Gas uk
Feridax Off road
AIROH Helmets
SIDI Boots
EXID Clothing
DUNLOP TYRES
PUTOLINE OILS
Tim and Sue Reynolds -TRC
Ian Shankie ?Aquawash Jet Washers
Danger Uk Bike Graphics
Bob Adams ? ISO 9001

Joanne is the next ACE Gas Gas rider to represent the team and its sponsors when she competes in her first SSDT accompanied by Ace Team Minder Chris Kilhams 

This is followed by ACE TRIALS TEAM .British Championship Youth A and 
Youth B  contenders Tom Dexter and Bradley Cox who will be representing the team and its sponsors at Round four of the British Championships in Cheadle on Sunday May 9th as Joanne returns home from Scotland. To follow the teams results at these two events look out for our ACE TRIALS TEAM  SSDT and ROUND FOUR BRITISH CHAMPIONSHIP reports on Trials Central.


Words by Sophie Kilhams

