Team Manager Mark Kilhams was pleased to announce at the recent FIM  World Indoor Trial  at Sheffield Arena ACE Gas Gas Trials Teams 2010 riders.
 
These riders are Representing ACE Gas Gas . On the British Ladies Championship route and now in the Championship class is 17 year old JOANNE COLES from Wirksworth. JOANNE, having moved up a class this year, after dominating the Youth A Class for the past two years has reguarly in 2009 beaten all the other Championship riders, securing the lowest score of the day on the Championship route.  Last year in her first year competing on the world circuit in the Ladies World FIM Championships,  JOANNE secured an incredible podium finish in Andorra, breaking a podium that had remained unbreakable for 5 years of Laia, Iris and Becky. Joanne was also chosen by the ACU to represent Great Britain in the 2009 ladies TDN  team after securing the lowest score of the TDN in 2008 whilst "practicing" ! JOANNE secured first place in the official team in 2009 along with British team mates Becky Cook and Emma Bristow. 2010 will be Joannes third year with Ace Trials Team. JOANNE will be representing the team in all events both at home and abroad including all ladies World Championships, all Ladies European Championships as well as competing in  selected few Mens FIM World Rounds. In all events Joanne will be supported by her father and Minder Paul who has ridden with Steve Saunders (a 2009 team Sponsor) in the 1970s and Paul was himself  a Midlands Champion. This year will also see Joanne competing in her first SSDT where it is hoped that she will re-claim the Best Female Award for the Team. JOANNE is known as "The hottest property in trials at the moment".
 
The team are also very pleased to welcome onboard in 2010 NIKITA SMITH. Changing machinery to Gas Gas this year, NIKITA has also benefitted in her short trials career from guidance from Ian Austermule and Ian's influence is very evident in NIKITAs riding and results. Winning the D class Yorkshire Championship in 2006 NIKITA moved up into the C Class in 2007 where she secured the runner up position. In 2008 NIKITA took control of this class to become C CLass British Champion. Moving up a year early as she had secured the Championship C Class title, NIKITA then incredibly came 3rd overall in the higher class- Youth B. This year, in 2010, the teams objective is for NIKITA to enjoy her riding as well as concentrate on building her confidence and riding ability with the teams support, enabling her to reach her true potential over the next few years and follow in team mate Joanne's footsteps .NIKITA will be representing the team for two years in all events at home and abroad including all British Ladies Youth B Championships as well as the Youth European Championships.
 
Representing the team in Mens events in 2010 will be two up and coming and improving youth riders TOM DEXTER  and BRADLEY COX.
 
The team were really excited to welcome TOM to ACE. TOM  has a growing reputation as a ever improving rider on the trials youth circuit.  TOM is a relative newcomer to our sport having only started riding British Nationals in C Class. With support and guidance from British Sidecar Champion Robin Moorwood, TOM has really improved over the last year securing 5 British Youth B Podiums in 2009. In 2009 some of TOM's other achievements were East Midlands B Class Champion, overall winner of the YMSA 3 day trial as well as Winning the Scarborough 2 day B Class trophy.  With the YMSA Championship being the best possible foundation for the Youth World circuit TOM also secured second overall in the 2009 YMSA Championships.  
In 2010 TOM like Nikita will be concentrating on building on his riding ability and his confidence through team training and guidance from the teams Manager Mark Kilhams. TOM will also benefit from support from his team mates at ACE. Tom is representing ACE TRIALS TEAM in all events at home and abroad. Tom moves into the Youth A Class in 2010 and will be representing the team in  all Youth A British Championships and the Youth European Championships. It is also hoped that TOM will represent the team in the  FIM British World Round in Fort William this year where he will benefit from full ACE TRIALS TEAM support at the event gaining invaluable experience and confidence, in readiness to hopefully represent ACE in the 2011 season on the world circuit.  TOM is a great asset to the 2010 ACE line-up.
 
The teams Youth B Championship rider is BRADLEY COX. As BRAD only started riding trials two years unlike many riders he has not progressed through the YOUTH Classes. However, BRAD has shown that this has not been a barrier to results,posting some excellent results in the last year. Benefitting from alot of support from Marcus Shirley (Ross Danby's Minder)  BRAD won the North Berks Championship as well as securing a fantastic 4th place overall in the YMSA Youth B Championships and 8th place overall in the British Youth B Championships in 2009.  

BRAD will be representing ACE in all events at home and abroad this year including the YOUTH B British Championships and the European Youth Championships. BRAD made a fantastic start to his first ACE year when he rode a class above and won the YOUTH A Class, posting the lowest score of the day on the hard route in the first round of the 2010 Oxford Ixion trials Championship.
 
 
 
 
Team Manager Mark Kilhams said at the Arena when the team was named " I am really pleased with the ACE GASGAS Line-up" for 2010.We made a decision at the end of last year after speaking to many people, to concentrate on the Ladies world rounds and all the ladies and Youth European rounds in 2010 .We shall be spending alot of time training hard with our riders over the next season and then return to the Mens FIM world circuit in 2011."
 
The team are pleased to announce they have secured their sponsors from 2009 for the forthcoming 2010 season. However, it costs tens of thousands of pounds to support these young  up and coming British riders. If you would like to put something back into our sport of Trials and raise the profile of British Trials around the world why not become one of the team sponsors and part of the only British independent team on the world and European circuit. Please contact Team Manager Mark Kilhams at www.acetrialsteam.co.uk  or  email Mark at acetrialsteam@hotmail.com. for more information.
 
Words by Sophie Kilhams
