Riding in her first World round on Saturday 26th June 2010 Joanne Coles proved why she has become known as the Ace Up Britain’s Sleeve.  

The Team had arranged a  surprise 18th birthday “do” in the ACE awning Friday. This was followed by a surprise organised  by Andy from the “Hub” of the world’s  www.  trials communication  -   Trials Central   -   when Andy arranged for everyone at the very successful  “Bash on The Ben” Charity Auction to sing happy birthday to Joanne in the short interval when she was called up and stood at the front of the venue  A fantastic day and a 18th birthday memory she will treasure forever. –Many thank Andy.

Joanne’s debut Men’s FIM SPEA  started for her at 09.57am Saturday when she rode onto the podium to collect her punch card in front of the grandstand crowds. The days time limit was 5 hours and was set in and around the Nevis Range at Fort William , consisting  of 2 laps of 15 very long and challenging sections.  Jake Miller and Martin Lampkin of L and M Events did a fantastic job utilising the natural Scottish highland terrain. 

There were three types of sections - streams, extreme SSDT  and Man-made. 

Sections 1,2 4,5,6,7,12 and 13 were natural “ Tony  BOU SSDT maximum mark taker” sections.  
Sections 1 and 2 were set in the Leachean SSDT stream,  but unlike in the SSDT,  the tape this weekend  took you the length of the whole stream and over the most extreme hazards 

Sections 3, 14 and 15 were man made HUGE sections set in front of the grandstand and the main podium stage. All the different class routes were very difficult and extreme which was excellent for the spectators and  “Top Boys” but very daunting if this was your first EVER World FIM Men’s Youth Class event, especially as Joanne was also following the new FIM rules that state that you can not enter the sections on competition day before riding them, to see any changes that may have occurred and  the new one minute time limit to complete the section. 

Sections 8,9,10 and 11 were also long natural stream sections. 
Riding the long sections 1 and 2 brilliantly for a single “dab” in each section Joanne then went the short distance to section 3. Here, in the first of the man-made grandstand sections, she had one of the best rides on lap one on the Youth course . With the Junior route and Youth route the same in this section. With a BIG dab on entering section 3 , where she was fully stretched of the side of her bike to reach the floor from the boulder she was on , Joanne then  amazingly got back up,  onto the bike, riding the middle part of the section confidently, regaining  her balance Joanne then took  a “new” line up the right hand side , over the big steep rock jamble climb. This resulted in a two dab score and a round of applause from the section observers who put their boards down to clap as well as the spectators. It was a brilliant ride. Joanne did not ride this second lap as this section was closed lap two on safety reasons as it became impossible due to rock movement . It was then off to the big rock stream sections of 4, 5 and 6 set half a mile along a track above the Nevis range main paddock area. Here Joanne had a maximum due to “time” in section 4 when she was very nearly out but the 1 minute time limit was just not enough to get to the ends cards. This was followed by another brilliant single dab ride on section 5.  Section 6 was again rode brilliantly and she attacked it head on but  as Joanne landed off one of the huge hazzards she broke the tape on landing. Joanne, Paul and Mark then went  higher up “The Ben” to section 7 set on its own before going even higher to the sections at the top of the ridge of the highest mountain in GB. Although Joanne continued to put in some awesome displays which considering she was not completely fit or happy in this new environment says everything about Joanne’s attitude. Joanne then cleaned section 7 which was set on the side of a hill it was a hill camber section of bracken and very green moss. Joanne, Paul and Mark then completed sections 8,9,10, 11, 12 and 13 were Joanne was being continually challenged with hazards she had never ridden before. It was then back to the main start area to the huge steep and very severe rock sections in front of the large crowds at section 14 and 15.  Section 14 had a nasty entrance. You had to ride off a enormous boulder that was not natural and had been placed at the top of the steep decent. 	As you landed on a steep loose hill slide you naturally built up speed and with another large boulder to overcome at the bottom this was a very challenging section and not for the “Faint hearted”. You then had to “hop” on the back wheel from boulder to boulder across the section to another rock climb “out” and eventually leave the section over a wooden fence to the ends cards that were at the end of a tapped alley. The whistle blew as Joanne climbed to the fence exit and she was beaten by the 1 minute time allowance. Section 15 was really mega. Joanne was not able to have her dad stood on the ground ,by the side of the boulder as she launched of This first hazard as the observer said to Paul  “Observers have to stand on rocks only” and this  gave Joanne her biggest challenge of the trial. With a FULL Grandstand and  with the start cards set so you had to ride up and over this  8 foot shiny granite rock slab on the back wheel and take off  with a 6 foot  landing area ,immediately slamming on the brakes.  As Joanne  rode up and over this first huge obstacle and as Mark and Paul watched , Joanne rode on her  back wheel brilliantly, she landed the bike in the tiny allocated area, and as instructed immediately braked, but with the knowledge that without Paul she was not  “safe” and  with possible altitude sickness from the height she had just achieved from the flight she had just done !!! Joanne lost her balance on landing and went forward to the side of her bike landing on the next hazard. Paul in fact immediately ran and stood at the hazard as his daughter rode the boulder, as did Mark, but Joanne was not aware of this at the time. Therefore with both hands remaining on the bars which had not touched the ground  and with a  solid  “bum” dab on the next hazard on landing, she looked un-nerved but in “Colesy style” she straightened her knee back up, cursed herself aloud (or the observer) and lined up for the next hazard as everyone in the grandstand applauded  her courage and determination. Many riders in the Youth and Junior class requested maximums on this section. With Paul now up on the top of the  next obstacle and with the personal helmet intercom meaning she was able to talk to “dad” for reassurance, Joanne quickly regained confidence and posture as she lined up to do the next part of the section with dad ON A  ROCK , as the crowds watched on.  Joanne revved her ICE VALLEY Gas Gas 125 and confidently launched at the 2 step hazard. Getting to the top she was just not able to get completely up and over and Paul brilliantly caught the bike when he could see that Joanne and the 125  bike were on their way back down meaning Joanne collected a maximum on this section. As Joanne left this section she was overheard saying to her Manager she was embarrassed with her performance, that she had not cleaned the first obstacle. That tells you everything about the pressure she puts on herself in events. .(To see this start of section 15 – a huge rock slab –go onto L&M Events UK report on Trials Central  and look at the picture of Martin standing between the two hazards.  Joanne rode up and off,  “landing ” her bike from the boulder the Bike in the picture is resting on The next obstacle , the double rock step is the rock that is to Martins left in the picture) JOANNE COMITTED TO RIDING BOTH OF THESE HAZARDS- One she thought without her minder!!!! .  

Joanne finished  Lap One on a score of 54 marks lost, having committed to every section and  not asking for one maximum. As she handed in her first punch card and collected her second lap  card it was announced by the commentator that she had just received the biggest round of applause of the day from the grandstand crowds as she rode out of section 15. 

Joanne with her minder, her dad  Paul and Team Manager Mark Kilhams then set of for Lap two at 12.57.am Completing and improving in score and performance  from having already ridden the sections lap one , Joanne completed section 13 on 42 marks lost for the lap.  Returning to the main spectator based finish area to the last two man-made sections with 20 minutes to spare Joanne lined up to attempt Section 14.  Section 14 had changed a lot since lap one and was now riding very fast. It was very steep and very loose now and bikes were running away from their riders. Many of the Youth and Junior riders were, on lap two, standing with both feet down at the side of their bikes and lowering the bikes off the first hazard to the steep hill drop below before riding the rest of the section. But Joanne rode up and off the huge rock with a tiny “ooowww” to herself as she descended very quickly brakes on to the bottom of the section to the next big hazard feet up all the way! ! . This section also looked as if it ended as you rode out over  a wooden four slatted 3 foot fence but the ends cards were actually set back 15 feet at the end of a taped alley and this caught a lot of riders out both laps . Joanne was just not able  lap two to get over the fence and to the ends card in the 60 seconds. It was then to the last section of the day , number 15. Here, like a lot of riders, Joanne took a 5 . This was due to her beingon a 125 and it was obvious that the 60 minute time allowance on the very LONG difficult section was going to beat her. Joanne then rode to the podium and handed in her punch card having put on a fantastic performance.

Finishing in a very respectable 12th place and IN THE POINTS in her debut FIM Youth World event Joanne handed in her punch card on a total loss of the day of 106 marks lost having  put on a brilliant representation for her family, her team mates Tom, Brad and Nikita and for everyone associated to ACE TRIALS TEAM.

Team Manager Mark Kilhams said at the end of the event “Joanne continually pushes herself well beyond her comfort zone. This was demonstrated when she cleaned section 7 both laps and rode Section 14 lap two and Section 15 Lap One thinking she had no-one there to catch her. That decision by the observer in section 15 was probably the worst observing I have ever experienced. Joanne is a winner and became very angry when she was receiving maximums on time. Our priorities for Joanne this year are is the 2010 BTC and Ladies UEM/FIM’s. Today was about experience for Joanne and Paul and was used as a structured “practice” session. To finish  in 12th place in her first ever Youth FIM SPEA is a good result but Joanne and Paul never disappointed me.”

Joanne and Nikita will be representing the team in the next round of the 2010 Ladies BTC in Leeds this weekend whilst Tom and Brad represent the team in Wales at the next round of the A and B Championships. To see their results log onto our ACE TRIALS TEAM report next week on Trials Central.

ACE TRIALS TEAM would like to thank all their valuable sponsors listed below for their continued support. If you too would like to become part of the only British Independent Trials Team and add your name to the list below please contact us at acetrialsteam@hotmail.com.



James Smith – Joanne’s ICE VALLEY WATER bikes.
Mark Eley – RENAULT Truck and Trailer Care – NEWARK
Rob Sheldon – PUTOLINE OILS and FILTERS
Mark Ingleby – FERIDAX off road
AIROH Helmets
SIDI Boots
EXID Clothing
JST Gas Gas uk
Terry and Linda Crabtree -Mansfield Maun MCC
DUNLOP Tyres
DANGER uk – Bike Graphics
Malc Kershaw – ACE SPORTS – Stavely
Alan Ketley
Bob Adams - ISO 9001 Consultant
Woody – HOPE Shitshifter
Ian Shankie – AQUAWASH- Jetwashers
Dave Leggett



 


Words/report  by Sophie Kilhams


