Sunday 30th May saw 16 year old Youth A  ACE GG Trials team member TOM DEXTER in Wales to compete in the Mitchell Memorial Trial,  his first British Championship Solo Round in the Youth Support class.

Hosted by the respected East South Wales Centre - Merthyr Motor Club, in the huge Morlais Quarry there were  10 sections set around the edge of the of Welsh Slate quarry walls with two muddy sections in woods within the quarry perimeter. 

With dry conditions with sunshine overhead , such a good venue and a time limit of two half hours for the first lap and five and a half in total meant everything pointed to it being a good trial.

With three laps of twelve extremely challenging sections  Tom and his minder Chris  knew from the start that it was going to be a hard but rewarding day.

Tom and his dad had travelled down Saturday to participate in the Saturday practice lap session .  When Chris arrived Sunday morning with Team Manager Mark and myself to support Tom , Toms dad  Andy was a little daunted by the severity of the technical and long sections, especially as this was Toms first attempt at an adult trial. However, Tom himself was calm and focused and just wanting to ?start?. So at 10.54am Tom and minder Chris left the start area to compete in their first Adult event. 

Section One was set up and down a sheer quarry wall with small scattered platforms of slippery grass. As you entered the section you had to immediately launch the bike six feet up and land onto and attack a steep loose shingle climb. Many 125s appeared to  be rushed and raced this obstacle but Tom cleared out his bike then sailed up it calmly and completely in control. The next part of the section was a steep three step wall where you had to jump midair to the left on the last step to remain feet up. Again Tom rode up the first two rock platforms jumping confidently to the left landing ?spot on? at the top of the climb making what was a hard obstacle look easy.  You then were required to follow a technical route over low set boulders until you then came to the final obstacle in the section- a sheer 15 foot rock face ?out? .  Tom was clean all three laps until this part of the section although he got out for 3?s lap one and two he had a maximum here on the third  lap  which considering he was on a 125 was something. With most of the slate sections almost identical in severity as section one,  Tom completed a ?solid? first lap with a score of 45, lying in third place, three marks behind  fellow Gas Gas JST rider Chris Short on 42 and the Youth support class trial leader and overall winner, local Welsh lad Jake Evans Luther.

Tom held onto third place all day.  Riding for the first time alongside and in the same sections as this countries ?Top Boys?, until section 12 on the last lap where he ?fived?  resulting in him securing equal third place on the day on marks. Section 12 was set in a deep 30 foot ?bomb Hole? next to the start area in the car park field. The section started in the bottom of the hole. The first part of the section  was up two five feet nasty steep ledges, going immediately over a balanced huge boulder which underhung. You then returned on a relatively easy course down back into the base of the bowl. This start of the section took maximums and caught out some the top boys during the day when it threw them backwards. Tom rode it perfectly laps one and two but it was here that Tom lost outright third place on his final lap when he too was thrown backwards. The last part of the section was again a sheer welsh slate rock face of approx 20 feet to land by the observer and ends cards . 

Tom improved throughout the trial securing a second lap score of  44 followed by 40
on his final lap which meant that he finished on a very respectable 129. In his first adult event Tom worked extremely hard all day, he was visible calm and unfazed and this resulted in him getting out of sections that other 125 riders didn?t. 

At the end of the trial Team Manager Mark Kilhams  said ? Tom needs to compete in these British Adult Championship events now he is old enough to progress. This will enable him to move positively forward in trials. I know Merthyr Motor Club always put on a very hard and challenging trial and it was important to Tom?s development that he compete here today. Tom and his family have experienced what happens when he leaves the British Youth Championships. I told him at the start area to use today, his first adult Solo event as a learning curve and as a practice session for his Youth A Championships and UEM?s.  Although Tom can not compete in Round Two of the UEM as he has exams on the Friday and Monday and you don?t mess with kids educations, especially as there is no  money to be made in trials at the moment.  Tom looked totally in control and confident all day and I was really pleased with his riding and positive attitude. Tom is mentally and physically strong but tall also for his age and that equals  hard work when your attacking sections Merthyr put on- on a 125 machine.- Equal third in his first adult event is a good result for his family, the team sponsors and Toms team mates. Tom now has a lot of GCSE exams together so he will not be competing in too many events over the next month until they have finished as his education is very important? 

Tom said at the end of the trial ?I found the trial a real test for the 125 but my Gas Gas didn?t let me down all day. It was a good experience riding with all the top riders. I think I learnt a lot and I now know where I am  heading with my riding. I now have to taske a few weeks out to concentrate on my exams which will be hard as I want to be on my bike like all my team mates.?


ACE would like to thank all their sponsors for their continued support . This sponsorship is making it possible for the team to help bring young British riders like Tom and  his team mate Joanne Coles forward as they make the huge jump from the Youth classes and enter the Adult Championships-representing the only British Independent Satellite team at home or abroad.

TEAM SPONSORS 2010
Mark Eley -RENAULT Truck and Trailer Care ? Newark
James Smith ? ICE VALLEY WATER
Tim and Sue Reynolds ? TTC-Sheffield
Rob Sheldon ?PUTOLINE oils and filters
Mark Ingeleby ? FERIDAX off road
AIROH Helmets
SIDI Boots
EXID Clothing
SHOT Clothing
DANGER uk-Bike Graphics
The Awning Company
DUNLOP Tyres
Woody ? HOPE shit shifter
Alan Ketley
Bob Adams
Ian Shankie ? AQUAWASH ? Scotland
Malc Kershaw-ACE SPORTS/Embroidery ? Stavely
Shirty, factory Kev and ?the Gang? at ?JST

If you would like to join the above list of sponsors ? no matter how small your contribution it would be very welcome ? please contact us at the above website or by emailing Mark Kilhams at acetrialsteam@hotmail.com.
Words by Sophie Kilhams


